This is a story that goes back more than 700 years,
and the best way to start is with a 16th-century joke:
"A man drove to the market with two grain of grain.
But because his horse could not carry a heavy load,
he carried the grain on his own shoulders, on the back of the horse. "
It may not be the best 16th century joke.
But it is one of the Merry Tales of the Mad-Men or Gotam,
a 16th century collection of stories
who will take away the intelligence of the inhabitants of this village.
You pronounce the name as "gutter-um".
The jokes in this book have existed for centuries,
and despite the fact that years of retelling has changed the details,
the story goes like this:
Early in the thirteenth century King John - wanted
the King John from the Robin Hood stories -
traveling through this village.
The residents were worried, because if the king traveled on a road,
it would become a public highway. They did not want this.
Another version tells of a hunting lodge that the king wanted to build in the neighborhood,
where the bill would come to lie with the residents.
So every royal ambassador who visited Gotham saw the villagers doing something ridiculous.
They tried to catch a cuckoo by building a hedge around it,
and decided, when the bird flew away,
that they had not built the hedge high enough.
They tried to kill an eel by drowning him.
At that time, "madness" was seen as contagious.
If the King would come here,
he might also be infected.
The king stayed away, and the villagers won.
The legend describes a cunning group of people who outwitted the King ...
but because of this also became known as a village full of crazy people.
They were both the Wise Men of Gotham and the Fools of Gotham.
Centuries later, in the 19th century, there was an American writer named Washington Irving.
People now know him mainly as the writer of the Legend of Sleepy Hollow,
but he was also a satirist.
In one of his early works he gives New York City the nickname Gotham.
I have traced this work, but I can not understand it very much.
I miss the complete context.
I do not know whether he calls the people of New York smart, or foolish, or both.
But the nickname he gave New York remained in public consciousness -
and it was written language, so "Goot-um" became "Goth-am".
More than a century later, when the comic book writer Bill Finger
searched for a name for the fictional city of Batman,
he went through the New York City phone book.
His eye fell on "Gotham Jewelers", and he thought: this is perfect.
That's why we now have Gotham City.
If one step had been missed,
from 13th-century legends to a 16th-century joke book,
to a 19th-century writer, to leaves in a 20th-century telephone book,
if one of these trifles had not happened,
Batman had now lived elsewhere.